I've opened up Windows PowerShell and all the
necessary prerequisites are installed.
I'm going to demonstrate creating a sample project called patient portal.
Before we generate the project, I need to create the project folder.
So, I'll run the command, make directory patient-portal.
Now I need to change to that folder by running change directory patient-portal.
It's important to note that JHipster is going to generate the full
scaffolding in the current folder on your command line.
So with this folder created, let's start project generation.
I'm going to start the JHipster generator using the command yo jhipster.
That command brought up the JHipster generator tool,
so let's look at some of the key details.
First, you'll notice the version number is listed.
As I mentioned in the last module,
it's possible you're going to be prompted here to upgrade JHipster.
The tool tells you the directory where application
files are going to be generated.
In our case it's the current folder C:\dev\patient-portal.
Finally, JHipster has displayed the first decision that needs to be made.
I need to choose the type of application I want generated.
I can choose from four options.
As I noted earlier, this course is focused on creating a monolith,
so I'm going to select that as the option.
But what were the other options?
And how does selecting monolith impact the scaffolding?
Let's take a deeper dive.
JHipster provides you with four options for deciding
how your project will be structured.
The first option, is the same as the architecture type it supports.
A monolithic application is characterized by having all of
its functionality in a single process.
While your code structure can be componentized,
you're still constrained to building and deploying the entire
application for even the smallest of changes.
The next three options support a microservices architecture.
With microservices, you decompose an application into single purpose services,
which run in their own process are loosely coupled and
communicate over a light wave mechanism.
This approach has benefits in terms of structure,
coupling, and deployment,
but can greatly increase the complexity of the system and operations.
Again, this course is focused on monoliths,
therefore, I don't plan to cover anything more on microservices.
Next, let's look at what JHipster generates when I select the monolith option.
Scaffolding it gets generated for a JHipster monolithic application
can have its main assets grouped into client,
server, and utilities.
Let's start with the client.
JHipster generates an Angular application with
several foundational views implemented.
These views include account management pages,
administration pages, and a home page.
Unit tests will be generated for the views,
along with the source code,
assets such as style sheets and images will be provided.
On the server side, JHipster generates a full Spring Boot back end application.
The application includes source code for configuration,
APIs, services, repositories, entities, and security.
JPA will be provided by Hibernate,
to implement persistence management for the database
type that you'll select later.
Finally, JHipster generates code and configuration for a number of utilities.
As we'll be using Gradle in this course, Gradle build strips will be created.
Also, support will be provided to run the application in a Docker container,
view APIs via Swagger, manage the database schema via Liquibase,
and configure application logging.
Now that you have more details about what's being
generated for a JHipster monolith,
let's complete our entries for application meta data.
I've opened back up Windows PowerShell so that we can
continue with generating the scaffolding.
The next decision we need to make is the base name of the application.
An important note here,
the base name can't contain any spaces or special characters,
as it's going to be used as a prefix for class names.
It should reflect your project name, so here I'll answer PatientPortal.
Next, I'll enter the Java source packaging convention.
I'll use com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
That concludes the application meta data options and entries. Let's continue to the next decision on the JHipster registry.